[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
ben thompson and rachel burns
good morning our headlines today
remembering the duke of edinburgh a
service will take place this morning in
honor of prince philip as his family pay
tribute
my my dear papa was
was a very special person who i think
above all else would have been amazed
by the reaction and the touching things
that have been said about him
it's been confirmed the duke's funeral
will take place next saturday with just
30 mourners in attendance lifting locked
down
a day to go until covered restrictions
are relaxed further in england
we ask is business ready to open up
again
good morning a sensational win for
racing and for rachel blackmore
she becomes the first female jockey to
win the grand national
riding 11-1 shot manila times
and it's another cold day across the uk
further wintry showers are expected but
there'll be some sunshine around too
good morning to you it is sunday the
11th of april our top story
a service of remembrance is being held
at canterbury cathedral this morning in
memory of the duke of edinburgh
it will be live streamed on social media
and led by the archbishop justin welby
who is also expected to officiate at
prince philip's funeral next saturday
our royal correspondent nicholas
ritchell reports
it will be here in saint george's chapel
windsor so often the setting for joyful
occasions for the royal family
that they will pay their final farewells
to the duke next saturday afternoon
buckingham palace is at pains to
emphasize that the event will be covet
compliant
everything will happen within the
privacy of the castle to avoid crowds
gathering
the funeral will be what's known as a
ceremonial royal funeral
that's one level down from a state
funeral it will take place at
three o'clock next saturday afternoon
the 17th of april
the duke's coffin will be born in a
ceremonial procession from the castle's
state apartments to st george's chapel
members of the royal family led by the
prince of wales will walk behind the
coffin there will be a national
one-minute silence when the coffin
reaches the chapel at three o'clock
inside the chapel the congregation will
be limited to 30.
the public is being asked not to go to
windsor
the best place to watch it all will be
on television said a palace spokesman
from his home at highgrove the prince of
wales paid this tribute to his father
my family and i missed my father
enormously
he was a much loved and appreciated
figure
and apart from anything else i can
imagine
and we're so deeply touched by the
number of other people here
and elsewhere around the world in the
commonwealth who also i think
share our loss and our sorrow
and my my dear papa
was was a very special person who i
think above all else would have been
amazed
by the reaction and the touching things
that have been said about him
and from that point of view we are my
family deeply grateful
for all that it will sustain us in this
particular loss and at this particularly
sad time
outside windsor castle people continue
to leave flowers
despite the requests not to do so people
want to pay their respects
and show their appreciation for a man
who gave
this country so many years of service
nicholas whitchell bbc news
well we're joined from windsor by our
royal correspondent sarah campbell
so sarah we know more details now of
the funeral service but also this
service of remembrance taking place
today tell us about that
uh yes indeed as you say a service of
remembrance taking place later today at
canterbury cathedral it is a ticketed
event so it's not something to turn up
to and as you said there it's going to
be
live streamed and i'm sure prince philip
a man of faith of course the queen
also and i think both of them will be
remembered in prayers
in churches and places of worship across
the country today
as you say we did hear some new details
about the funeral which will be held on
saturday there will be a maximum of 30
people that's in line with coronavirus
restrictions
we know that present will be the duke's
children and grandchildren
including the duke of sussex prince
harry who will be flying in from
california his wife megan will not
and our understanding is that's on the
advice of her doctors she is
of course pregnant now normally at a
funeral of a senior royals such as
prince philip you would expect
the prime minister to attend but downing
street said yesterday that he won't
attend and that's because uh he wants to
allow the maximum number of
family members to be present so talking
about the funeral itself well of course
the duke famously doesn't like a fuss
and friends of his have commented that
actually perhaps this much smaller
private funeral might have actually been
what he wanted
certainly palace spokespeople said
yesterday that it was certainly in line
with his wishes and a particularly nice
touch
i think is that his coffin will be born
through the grounds of windsor castle
on the back of a land rover which has
been specially adapted
and designed by the duke so clearly he
had a hand in in what he would have
wanted
for his funeral um it's worth
reiterating i think
that um all will take place within the
confines of the castle walls there will
be no vantage points
here in windsor the uh the palace
spokespeople saying that really the best
view that you're going to get at the
funeral is to watch it on television so
really this
idea that encouraging people to stay
away from windsor from buckingham palace
from all of these places does continue
because whilst
this funeral is an important event that
people will want to mark
the pandemic is ongoing and i think the
authorities wanting to make sure that
people
mourn prince philip from a safe distance
thank you very much sarah
now in australia the prime minister
scott morrison and governor general
david hurley attended a church service
in sydney this morning to pay their
respects to the duke of edinburgh we're
joined now by
our correspondent shauna khalil who is
there charmaine morning to you
tell us a little bit more about this
service and just how the prince has been
honored in australia over the last
couple of days
morning ben well we spent the day
outside saint andrews cathedral a church
that
the queen and the duke of edinburgh had
attended several times on their
different visits here to australia to
sydney
uh in particular and uh of course as you
say the prime minister the governor
general and the premier of new south
wales
were among those who attended but really
hundreds of people
members of the public also attended and
it wasn't uh
your normal sunday service this of
course was a historic moment for so
many people and a moment to it to
express
solidarity with the queen with the royal
family and of course to pay respects
uh for the life of uh prince philip a
life of duty of service and loyalty
we managed to speak to the prime
minister just after the service outside
the church and again he reiterated
um his message to the queen of
condolences and of respect
to the life but it was actually quite
touching to
speak to uh people as well it felt quite
personal for so many people even those
who haven't met them some remember those
royal visits remembering clamoring with
the crowds
trying to get a glimpse of the queen and
the duke of edinburgh and others just
said
he was a man that seemed very personable
that it seemed like he had a good sense
of humor even if it landed him
in some trouble and memories really
about
that humor and about his deep interest
in people especially young people we
heard from
a number of young people actually
throughout those couple of days who said
that
the duke of edinburgh awards scheme
changed their lives
for the better made them able to engage
with the community so
today was a mix of yes sadness for the
loss of course of
of the duke of edinburgh and a sense of
solidarity uh with the queen
and the uh royal family and remembering
a man who's seen here really as a
a a long and close friend to australia
okay shima thanks very much sharma
khalil there in sydney for us
the duke of edinburgh's funeral next
saturday is likely to see a number of
elite sporting events postponed or
rearranged an fa cup semi-final the
women's six nations
and the opening day of the world snooker
championship are among the events likely
to be affected the english football
league has announced that all
3 pm games next saturday will be moved
to avoid a clash
election campaigning will resume on
tuesday after a brief pause following
the death of the duke of edinburgh
elections to the scottish and welsh
parliaments and for councillors mayors
and police and crime commissioners in
england are due to be held on the 6th of
may
there will be another short break in
campaigning on the day of prince
philip's funeral
next saturday former big brother
contestant and reality tv star nikki
graham has died at the age of 38.
nikki had checked into a private
hospital last month and was receiving
treatment for an eating disorder
a death was announced by friends on a
fundraising campaign
page which had raised 65 000 pounds from
fans
towards her recovery
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc
news